# Roadmap

#### Features

- [ ] `bundown --tag <tag> <file.md>` (`-t`) runs only code blocks with the specified tag.
- [ ] `bundown` auto-detects operating system and does not run code blocks tagged as specific to other operating systems.
- [ ] `bundown build <file.md>` builds a Markdown file into a directory of files generated by concatenating code blocks associated with file names, including supported languages as well as file types like `html`, `css`, `json`, `yml`, `.gitignore`, etc.
- [ ] `bundown build bundown.md` is used to build the `bundown` codebase from a single Markdown file.
- [ ] `bundown https://example.com/file.md` runs a Markdown file from a URL.
- [ ] `bundown --safe <file.md>` pretty-prints each code block before running with a Y/N prompt to run it.
- [ ] `bundown` uses source mapping to deliver helpful and traceable error messages when code blocks or individual lines of code fail.
- [ ] `bundown upgrade` upgrades `bundown` to the latest version.
- [ ] `bundown` can run Python code blocks.
- [ ] `bundown` can run C/C++ code blocks.
- [ ] `bundown` can run Rust code blocks.
- [ ] `bundown` can run Zig code blocks.
- [ ] `bundown` shares variables and functions between code blocks, regardless of language.

#### Improvements

- [ ] `bundown` should properly escape the content of Shell code blocks when compiling the executed TypeScript file.
- [ ] `bundown` should check that the user has `bun@^1.0.24` installed and in their `$PATH` and report a helpful error message if not.

---

## Changelog

### `bundown@^0.0.7`

#### Improvements

- [x] `package.json` now lists runtime dependencies.

---

### `bundown@^0.0.6`

#### Features

- [x] `bundown --version` (`-v`) prints the version of `bundown` installed.
- [x] `bundown --print <file.md>` (`-p`) pretty-prints the Markdown and syntax highlighted code blocks.
- [x] `bundown --help` (`-h`) prints a help message.

#### Improvements

- [x] `bundown` now uses ANSI colors for more helpful usage messages & pretty-printing.

---

### `bundown@^0.0.5`

#### Features

- [x] `bundown` recognizes languages regardless of case, allowing uppercase language names in code blocks.

#### Improvements

- [x] `bundown` now uses a single parser loop to run faster in less lines of code.

Thank you to everybody who contributed to this release: @emileferreira @arrysana @jrysana

---

### `bundown@^0.0.4`

#### Features

- [x] `bundown` can run multiple instances at once.
- [x] `bundown` returns the same exit code as the code it ran.

Thank you to everybody who contributed to this release: @KaruroChori @jrysana

---

### `bundown@^0.0.3`

#### Improvements

- [x] `bundown` has developer tooling including `biome` code formatting via `bundown format.md` and a `.gitignore` file.

---

### `bundown@^0.0.2`

#### Improvements

- [x] `bundown` doesn't skip a code block if a supported language is specified in full but has extra whitespace/content on the language line.

---

### `bundown@^0.0.1`

#### Features

- [x] `bundown <file.md>` runs TypeScript, JavaScript, and Shell code blocks in Markdown files.
- [x] `bundown` can be installed globally using `npm`, `bun`, `pnpm`, or `yarn` and run from anywhere.
