# Roadmap

See what's already been done in [`changelog.md`](changelog.md)

> This roadmap is an early work-in-progress and subject to change - please feel free to suggest additions, removals, changes etc.

#### Features

+ `bundown --tag <tag> <file.md>` (`-t`) runs only code blocks with the specified tag.
+ `bundown` auto-detects operating system and does not run code blocks tagged as specific to other operating systems.
+ `bundown build <file.md>` builds a Markdown file into a directory of files generated by concatenating code blocks associated with file names, including supported languages as well as file types like `html`, `css`, `json`, `yml`, `.gitignore`, etc.
+ `bundown build bundown.md` is used to build the `bundown` codebase from a single Markdown file.
+ `bundown https://example.com/file.md` runs a Markdown file from a URL.
+ `bundown --interactive <file.md>` (`-i`) pretty-prints each code block before running with a Y/N prompt to run it.
+ `bundown` detects potentially unsafe code and prompts the user to run interactively if so.
+ `bundown` uses source mapping to deliver helpful and traceable error messages when code blocks or individual lines of code fail.
+ `bundown ai` uses the core runtime, pretty-printing, and safe execution to deliver a great private, local, open-source alternative interface to LLM chat/search/code apps.
+ `... | bundown` can be used to pipe Markdown into `bundown` instead of using a file path.

#### Improvements

+ `bundown --print` uses syntax-highlighting in printed code blocks.
+ `bundown --print` visually formats Markdown segments (bold, italic, color, etc.)
+ `bundown` should properly escape the content of Shell code blocks when compiling the executed TypeScript file.

#### Languages
+ `bundown` shares variables and functions between code blocks, regardless of language.
+ `bundown` can print and build: `json`, `yaml`, `toml`, `html`, `xml`, `svg`, `css`, `sass`, `scss`, `.gitignore`, `python`, `sql`, `c#`, `c++`, `c`, `zig`, `rust`, `php`, `go`, `kotlin`, `java`, `ruby`, `lua`, `assembly`, `swift`, `r`, `haskell`, `lisp`, `clojure`, `julia`, `brainfuck`, `latex`, and more?
+ `bundown` can run: `python`, `c#`, `c++`, `c`, `zig`, `rust`, `php`, `go`, `ruby`, `lua`, `assembly`, `lisp`, `clojure`, `julia`, `brainfuck`, and more?
